## 1.06 Basic rules of algebra
The general rules for manipulating numbers and variables, a process otherwise known as algebra.

An expression contains _terms_, which are usually composed of many things multiplied together.

When $x$ is obtained as the product of other numbers e.g., $x = abc$
- $x$ factors into $a$, $b$, and $c$
- $a$, $b$ and $c$ are the factors of $x$

Given $a$, $b$, $c$, $d$, we can apply the following algebraic properties:
1. Associative property: 
	- $a + b + c = (a + b) + c = a + (b + c)$ 
	- $abc = (ab)c = a(bc)$
2. Commutative property: $a + b = b + a and ab = ba$
3. Distributive property: $a(b + c) = ab + ac$

We use the distributive property every time we _expand_ brackets
$$a(b + c + d) = ab + ac + ad$$

The brackets indicate the expression $(b + c + d)$ must be treated as a whole 
- $(b + c + d)$ is a factor consisting of 3 terms
- $a(b + c + d) \equiv ab+ac+ad$

The opposite of expanding is _factoring_, which consists of rewriting the expression with the common parts taken out in front of a bracket.
$$ab + ac = a(b + c)$$
### Expanding brackets
The distributive property is useful when dealing with polynomials:
$$(x + 3)(x + 2)$$
$$x(x + 2) + 3(x + 2)$$
$$x^2 + x2 + 3x + 6$$
$$x^2 + 5x + 6$$
**Abstract form:** $(x + a)(x + b) = x^2 + (a + b)x + ab$
- The product of two linear terms is equal to a quadratic expression
- The middle term on the RHS contains the _sum_ of the two constants on the LHS $(a + b)$.
- The third term contains their product $ab$.

**Example:** 
$(x + a)(bx^2 + cx + d)$
$\ = x(bx^2 + cx + d) + a(bx^2 + cx + d)$
$\ = bx^3 + cx^2 + dx + abx^2 + acx + ad$
$\ = bx^3 + (c + ab)x^2 + (d + ac)x + ad$

**Note:** the pattern of grouping all terms containing $x^2$ and $x$ into separate terms is used when dealing with expressions containing different powers of $x$.

**Example 2:** 
Solve for $t$ in the equation $7(3 + 4t) = 11(6t − 4)$
1. Bring all $t$ terms to one side and all constant terms to the other side.
	$21 + 28t = 66t − 44$
2. Relocate all $ts$ to the equation’s RHS and all constants to the LHS:
	$21 + 44 = 66t − 28t$
3. $t$ is contained in both terms on the RHS, so we can rewrite it as:
	$21 + 44 = (66 − 28)t$

$$t\ =\ \frac{21+44}{66-28}\ =\ \frac{65}{38}$$
### Factoring
Factoring involves taking out the common part(s) of a expression.

**Example:** Simplify $6x^2y + 15x$ by taking out common factors.

The expression has two terms and each term can be split into its constituent factors:
$$6x^2y + 15x = (3)(2)(x)(x)y + (5)(3)x$$
Since factors x and 3 appear in both terms, we can _factor them out_:
$$6x^2y + 15x = 3x(2xy + 5)$$
Expressions shows $3x$ is common to both terms.

**Example 2:** 
$$2x^2y + 2x + 4x$$
$$2x(xy + 1 + 2)$$
$$2x(xy + 3)$$

### Quadratic factoring
It is often useful to rewrite the function as a product of two factors.
$...$

### Completing the square
$...$
