## 1.09 Logarithms
Logarithms are used to compare very large numbers and very small numbers on the same scale.
### Definitions
- $log_b(x)$: the logarithm of $x$ base $b$ is the inverse function of $b^x$
- $ln(x)$: the “natural” logarithm base $e$ is the inverse of $e^x$
- $log_2(x)$: the logarithm base $2$ is the inverse of $2^x$

### Formulas
Logarithms are defined as the inverses of their corresponding exponential functions.
$$\log_{b}(x) = m ⇔ b^m = x$$
Logarithms with base $e$ - $ln(x)$ - for “logarithme naturel” because $e$ is the “natural” base.
Another special base is $10$ because our numbers are based on the decimal system.
- $\log_{10}(x)$ tells us roughly the size of $x$ — the amount of digits in $x$

**Example:** The number of figures $N_S$ in a salary is calculated as 1 plus the logarithm base 10 of the salary $S$.
$$N_{S} = 1 + log_{10}(S)$$
Solve for $S$ given $N_S=7$ to find the smallest 7 figure salary: $$7=1+log_10(S)$$$$6=\log_{10}(S)$$Using the inverse relationship logarithm between base 10 and exponentiation base 10.
$$S=10^6=1000000$$
### Properties
1. The sum of two logarithms is the logarithm of the product of the arguments.
$$\log(x)+\log(y)=\log(xy)$$
2. When you have a logarithm of a power, you can bring the exponent $k$ to the front as a coefficient. $$\log(x^k)=k\log(x)$$
3. The difference of logarithms equals the logarithm of the quotient 
   $$\log(x)-\log(y)=\log\big(\frac{x}{y}\big)$$
4. This property helps us change from one base to another.
   $$\log_B(x) = \frac{\log_b(x)}{\log_b(B)}$$
   For example, the $log_{10}$ of a number $S$ can be expressed as a $log_2$ or $ln$:
   $$\log_{10}(S) = \frac{\log_{10}(S)}{1} = \frac{\log_{10}(S)}{\log_{10}(10)} = \frac{\log_2(S)}{\log_2(10)} = \frac{\ln(S)}{\ln(10)}$$

**Proof for (1), (2) and (3)**
Show that the expression on the left is equal to the expression on the right.$$b^mb^n=b^{m+n}$$
Define some new variables $x$ and $y$ such that $b^m = x$ and $b^n = y$.
$$xy=B^{m+n}$$
Taking the logarithm of both sides gives:
$$\log_b(xy) = \log_b(b^{m+n}) = m + n = \log_b(x) + \log_b(y)$$
The last step above uses the definition of the log function again:
$$b^m = x \Leftrightarrow m = \log_b(x) \quad \text{and} \quad b^n = y \Leftrightarrow n = \log_b(y)$$