## 5.01 Introduction 
[[2.03-introduction-to-calculus]] started with the knowledge of an object’s acceleration function over time, we used the integration operation to calculate the object’s velocity function and its position function.

### Download example
Let $f(t)$ represent the size of the downloaded data, where $t$ represents the time in seconds since the download began.

At any time $t$, $f(t)$ tells you the amount of disk space taken by the partially-downloaded file. $$\frac{f(t)}{size[MB]}$$
#### Download rate
The derivative function $f'(t)$ describes how the function $f(t)$ changes over time i.e., the download speed for $f'(t)$.

If your downloading speed is $f'(t) = 100[kB/s]$, then the file size $f(t)$ must increase by 100\[kB\] each second. Maintaining this download speed results in the file size growing at a constant rate: $$f(0) = 0[kB],\ f(1) = 100[kB],\ f(2) = 200[kB], \dots, f(100) = 10[MB]$$
To calculate the _estimated time remaining_: $$time\ remaining = \frac{720 − f(t)}{f'(t)} [s]$$
#### Inverse problem
The modem knows the download rate $f'(t)[kB/s]$ at all times during the download. However, since the modem is separate from your computer, it does not know the file size $f(t)$ as the download progresses.

The modem can infer the file size at time $t$ from knowing the transmission rate $f'(t)$.

The integral of the download rate between $t = 0$ and $t = \tau$ corresponds to the total amount of downloaded data stored on a computer. $$\Delta f = f(\tau) - f(0) = \int_{0}^{\tau} f'(t) \, dt$$
Assuming the file size starts from zero $f(0) = 0[kB]$ at $t = 0$, the modem can use the integration procedure to find $f(\tau)$, the file size at $t=\tau$: $$f(r) = \int_{0}^{r} f'(t)\,dt$$
The download rate $f'(t)$ is measured in \[kB/s\], and each time step $dt$ is $1[s]$ long, so the data downloaded during one second is $f'(t)dt[kB]$. 

The file size at time $t = \tau$ is equal to the sum of the data downloaded during each second from $t = 0$ until $t = \tau$ .

The integral $\int_{0}^{b} q(t)\,dt$ is the calculation of the _total_ of some quantity $q(t)$ that accumulates during the time period from $t = a$ to $t = b$. 

Integrals are necessary any time you want to calculate the total of a quantity that changes over time.