## 5.02 Overview
In calculus, the derivative and integral operators are procedures that take functions as inputs and produce functions as outputs.

In calculus, the derivative and integral operators are procedures that take functions as inputs and produce functions as outputs.

Specifically, the derivative operator $\frac{d}{dx}$ acts on a function $f(x)$ to produce its derivative function: $\frac{d}{dx}[f(x)] = f'(x)$.

### Limits
In calculus, limits describe what happens to mathematical expressions when one variable becomes very large, or alternately becomes very small.

**For example**: “in the limit as n goes to infinity, expression involving n.” $$\lim_{n \to \infty} \text{(expression involving } n\text{)}$$
Another type of limit occurs when a small, positive number — for example $\delta > 0$ — becomes progressively smaller and smaller. 

The precise statement that describes what happens when the number $\delta$ tends to 0 — “the limit as $\delta$ goes to zero, expression involving $\delta$.”
$$\lim_{\delta \to 0} \text{(expression involving }\delta\text{)}$$
Derivative and integral operations are both defined in terms of limits.

### Sequences
Functions defined for natural number inputs $n \in \mathbb{N}$ are called _sequences_.

Specifically, a sequence is a function of the form $a : \mathbb{N} → \mathbb{R}$ with the input variable usually denoted $n$ or $k$ that corresponds to the _index_ or number in the sequence.

Sequences are described either by 
- specifying the formula for the $n^{th}$ term in the sequence
- listing all the values of the sequence: $$a_n, n \in \mathbb{N} \Leftrightarrow (a_0, a_1, a_2, a_3, a_4, \ldots)$$
**Note**: the sequence continues indefinitely $$a_n = \frac{1}{n^2}, \, n \in \mathbb{N}_+ \Leftrightarrow \left(\frac{1}{1}, \frac{1}{4}, \frac{1}{9}, \frac{1}{16}, \frac{1}{25}, \ldots\right)$$
The fundamental question we can ask about sequences is whether they _converge_ in the limit when n goes to infinity.
- For instance, the sequence $a_n = \frac{1}{n^2}$ converges to $0$ as $n$ goes to infinity.
- Expressed with the limit notation: $\lim_{n\ \to\ +\infty} \frac{1}{n^2} = 0.$
### Series
Suppose we’re given a sequence $a_n$ and we want to compute the sum of all the values in this sequence. To describe the sum of $3^{rd}$, $4^{th}$, and $5^{th}$ elements of $a_n$: $$a_3 + a_4 + a_5 \equiv \sum_{3 \leq n \leq 5} a_n \equiv \sum_{n=3}^{5} a_n$$
The partial sum of the sequence values $a_n$ ranging from $n = 0$ until $n = N$ is denoted as $$S_N = \sum_{n=0}^{N} a_n = a_0 + a_1 + a_2 + \cdots + a_{N-1} + a_N$$
The series $\Sigma\ a_n$ is the sum of _all_ the values in $a_n$ (note this is an infinite sum) $$\sum a_n \equiv S_\infty = \lim_{N\ \to\ \infty} S_N = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} a_n = a_0 + a_1 + a_2 + a_3 + a_4 + \cdots$$
#### Techniques
We say a series $\sum a_n$ _converges_ if the infinite sum $S_\infty \equiv \sum_{n \in \mathbb{N}} a_n$ equals some finite number $L \in \mathbb{R}$. $$S_\infty = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} a_n = L \quad \Rightarrow \quad \text{the series } \sum a_n \text{ converges.}$$We call $L$ the limit of the series $\Sigma\ a_n$.

If the infinite sum $S_{\infty} \equiv \sum_{n \in \mathbb{N}} a_n$ grows to infinity, we say the series $\sum a_n$ diverges.
$$S_{\infty} = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} a_n = \pm\infty \quad \Rightarrow \quad \text{the series} \sum a_n \ \text{diverges}$$
The main series technique you need to learn is how to spot the differences between series that converge and series that diverge.

#### Applications
We can use series to compute approximations to numbers and functions.

**For example**: the number e can be computed as the following series: $$e = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{1}{n!} = 1 + 1 + \frac{1}{2 \cdot 1} + \frac{1}{3 \cdot 2} + \frac{1}{4 \cdot 3 \cdot 2} + \frac{1}{5 \cdot 4 \cdot 3 \cdot 2} + \cdots$$
As we compute more terms from the series, our estimate of the number $e$ becomes more accurate.
- The partial sum of the first six terms (above) gives us an approximation of $e$ that is accurate to three decimals.
- The partial sum of the first 12 terms provides $e$ to an accuracy of nine decimals.

Also, you can approximate functions by infinitely long polynomials. The _Taylor series_ approximation for a function $f(x)$ is defined as: $$f(x) = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} c_n x^n = c_0 + c_1x + c_2x^2 + c_3x^3 + c_4x^4 + \cdots$$
Each term in the series is of the form $a_n = c_nx^n$, where $c_n$ is a constant that depends on the function $f(x)$.

**For example**, the power series of $\sin(x)$ is: $$\sin(x) = \underbrace{\overbrace{\vphantom{\frac{x}{1}}x}^{T_1(x)} - \frac{x^3}{3!} + \frac{x^5}{5!}}_{T_5(x)} - \frac{x^7}{7!} + \frac{x^9}{9!} - \frac{x^{11}}{11!} + \cdots$$
We can truncate the infinite series anywhere to obtain an approximation to the function.
- The function $T_5(x) = x - \frac{x^3}{3!} + \frac{x^5}{5!}$ is the best approximation to the function $\sin(x)$ by a polynomial of degree $5$.
- The equation of the tangent line $T_1(x)$ at $x = 0$ is a special case of the Taylor series approximation procedure, which approximates the function as a first-degree polynomial.