## 5.03 Infinity
### Infinitely large
Technically speaking, $\infty$ is not a number; $\infty$ is a process. You can think of it as the answer you obtain by starting from 0 and continuously adding 1 forever.

To see why $N < \infty$ for any finite number $N$, consider the following reasoning.
- When we add 1 to a number, we obtain a larger number.
- The operation $+1$ is equivalent to taking one unit step to the right on the number line.
- For any $n, n < n+1$. To get to infinity we start from $n = 0$ and keep adding $1$.
- After $N$ steps, we’ll arrive at $n = N$. But then we must continue adding $1$ and obtain $N + 1, N + 2, N + 3,$ etc.

Since adding 1 always creates a larger number, the following chain of inequalities is true: $$N < N + 1 < N + 2 < N + 3 < \dots < \infty $$
Therefore $N < \infty$ for any finite $N$.

When we say a number $n$ “goes to” infinity, it means $n$ becomes increasingly larger and larger. 
- There is no number $n \in \mathbb{R}$ such that $n = \infty$.
- $N = \infty$ is an informal way of saying $N = \lim_{n\ \to\ \infty}n$.
### Infinitely small
The opposite of infinitely large, denoted by $\epsilon$ and $\delta$. The infinitely small number $\epsilon > 0$ is a non-zero number smaller than any number you can think of.

Most often, the variable $\epsilon$ appears in limit expressions as a quantity that tends toward 0.

The expression $\lim_{\epsilon\ \to\ 0}$ describes the process of $\epsilon$ becoming smaller and smaller, but never actually reaching 0, since by definition $\epsilon > 0$.

### Infinitely many
The interval \[0, 1\] of the number line contains infinitely many numbers i.e., there is an infinite number of fractions such as $1, \frac{1}{2}, \frac{1}{4}, \frac{1}{8}, \frac{1}{16}$.

These points (fractions) “fit” fine in the interval \[0, 1\] since these are mathematical points i.e., they don’t take up any space at all.

You must learn how to make limit arguments, because limits are important.
### Interlude
Imagines infinity as a person with problematic personality traits: 
- having a "more, more, more" mentality (like megalomania) for infinitely large numbers, 
- being overly self-sacrificing for infinitely small numbers (epsilon) 
- being too theoretical when it comes to fitting infinite numbers in finite intervals. 

Despite these "character flaws," there might still be something worthwhile about understanding infinity.
### Infinitely precise
Definition of $e$ in two ways:
- _Power series:_ $\ \ \ \ e = \sum_{n=0}^{\infty} \frac{x^n}{n!}$
- _Limit:_ $\ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ \ e = \lim_{n \to \infty} (1 + \frac{1}{n})^n$

**Key point**: $e$ can't be computed exactly (it's infinite), but we can approximate it to any precision $\epsilon$.

For precision $\epsilon$, find N terms so that $|e_N - e| < \epsilon$ 

**Example**:
- $\epsilon = 10^{-15}$ needs N = 19 terms
- $\epsilon = 10^{-25}$ needs N = 25 terms